Hi everyone, let's learn together.
Python.
Bitwise operators.
Bitwise operators are used to compare binary number.
We have the bitwise and bitwise or xor.
The bitwise not inverts all the bits.
We have also the bitwise left shift and the bitwise right shift.
Let's go to PyCharm and understand each operator.
In the first example we have the bitwise and operator.
The bitwise and operator compares each bit and set it to one if both are one, otherwise it's set to
zero.
If both are one, it returns one, otherwise it returns zero.
The result in this example it will be two.
Let's see the result.
The result is two.
The second operator, the bitwise or.
The bitwise Or operator compares each bit and set it to one if one or both is one if one or both is
one.
Return one, otherwise it return zero.
In this case, the result it will be seven.
Let's execute the code.
The result is seven.
The bitwise XOR operator compares each bit and set it to one.
If only one is one.
If only one is one, it returns one.
Otherwise one XOR one.
It returns zero, zero, or zero.
It returns zero.
The result in this case it will be five.
Let's execute the code.
The result is five.
The fourth operator bitwise not.
The bitwise not operator, inverts each bit.
Zero becomes one and one becomes zero.
In this example, zero becomes one and one becomes zero.
The bitwise not Five it will return.
This example is three.
The bitwise not three.
It will return minus four.
Let's execute the code.
The result is minus four.
There are also other rules to get a quick result.
The bitwise not x is the result of minus x minus one.
Let's execute in this example.
X in this case is three.
The result here it will be minus three.
Minus one.
It will be minus four.
The case of four.
In this case x take the value four.
The result it will be minus four.
Minus one it will be minus five.
When execute the code the result it will be minus five.
The result is minus five.
Let's do another example.
If we have bitwise not of five, the result it will be minus five minus one it will be minus six.
The result is minus six.
Let's go to the bitwise left shift.
The bitwise left shift operator.
Insert the specified number of zero in this case is two.
It can be 3 or 4 from the right.
There are rules to get a quick result of left shift here x left shift y is the same that x.
Multiply it by two exponentiation y.
In this example, let's practice this rule to our example.
It will be three multiplication by two Exponentiation to.
It will be three multiplied by four.
The result?
It will be 12.
Like we see, the result is 12.
Let's do another example.
If we have three left shift three here it will be three three multiplied by two.
Exponentiation three.
Two.
Exponentiation three is eight.
Three multiplied by eight.
It will be 24.
The result in this example it will be 24.
Let's do another example.
In case of the value four.
Three will be multiplied by two.
Exponentiation four three multiplied by 16.
The result?
It will be 48.
The bitwise right shift operator.
The bitwise right shift operator moves each bit to the specified number of times to the right specified
number of times.
In this example is two.
It can be three four.
If you move each bit two times because we have two in this example, two times to the right eight becomes
two.
In this example.
Move each bit two times on the right.
The result it will be two.
Let's execute the code.
The result is two.
We have also a rules to get a quick result for the right shift.
If we have x right shift y it will be the result of x floor Division two.
exponentiation y.
Let's do an example.
We have eight.
Right.
Shift two.
What will be the result?
It will be the floor division between 8 and 2.
Exponentiation two.
The floor division between 8 and 4.
Is two.
And this is.
The result is two.
Let's do another example.
If we have three, it will be a floor division between 8 and 2.
Exponentiation three.
If lower division between 8 and 8, the result should be one.
Or also when move eight bits three times.
In this example it will be like that.
The result is one.
Let's execute the code.
Let's do another example.
We add four in this case.
What will be the result if you move each bit four times?
In this case the result it will be zero.
Let's execute with these rules eight right.
Shift four.
What will be the result?
Eight floor Division two exponentiation.
Four is the floor division between 8 and 16.
And the result it will be zero.
Let's execute the code.
And the result is zero.
And that's it for this video.